Add os_purpose field. (#970)
SovereignCloudStack/standards: Standards/scs-0102-v1-image-metadata.md

- `os_purpose`

  The following values are allowed

  | `os_purpose` value | Intention                                                 |
  |--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
  | `generic`          | A general purpose image, (mostly) vanilla from upstream   |
  | `minimal`          | A much more barebones general purpose image               |
  | `capinode`         | Node image built for cluster-API                          |
  | `gpu`              | Image with GPU drivers e.g. for HPC or AI                 |
  | `custom`           | None of the above                                         |

  Note that no other values are currently allowed and `custom` should be used in case
  of doubt. Talk to the SCS standardization bodies if you'd like to see this list extended which is
  likely the case if you fall back to `custom`.

  The usage of standardized `os_distro`, `os_version`, `architecture`, and `os_purpose` help cloud users to create
  automation that works across clouds without requiring image names to be standardized. Only
  one visible public image with `os_purpose` = `generic` and the same settings for `os_distro`,

>   `os_version` and `architecture` should be active on any given cloud.

Reviewer: Comprehension question: what is meant by "be active" in this context? The text already speaks of visible public image, so I would presume it either exists or it doesn't?

Author: Feel free to word this "should exist" if you find "should be active" confusing. For me it's the same.
(There are several ways to make an image inactive. Setting `os_hidden`='True'`. Marking it as `visibility`=`community`. We don't prescribe any of these. As both basically affect visibility, the idea of deactivation and removing from visibility possibly being different is currently not true -- I would not exclude the possibility of a future mechanism to deactivate in ways that may not be well characterized by "hiding", although I don't expect it. I felt that the wording as chosen is a safe choice. But it has confused you, so it wasn't.)

Reviewer: I suppose when I set `os_hidden=True` then it's no longer visible, and when I set `visibility=community` then it's no longer public, so the word 'active' to me suggested that there would be a third way, but I didn't know what this might be. I'm afraid I'm a reviewer who is quite easily confused ;)

>   The usage of standardized `os_distro`, `os_version`, `architecture`, and `os_purpose` help cloud users to create
>   automation that works across clouds without requiring image names to be standardized. Only
>   one visible public image with `os_purpose` = `generic` and the same settings for `os_distro`,
>   `os_version` and `architecture` should be active on any given cloud.

Reviewer: For instance

```suggestion
  The usage of standardized `os_distro`, `os_version`, `architecture`, and `os_purpose` help cloud users to create
  automation that works across clouds without requiring image names to be standardized.

  _Uniqueness requirement_: whenever there are two images that have `os_hidden=False`, `visibility=public`,
  and that coincide in all three fields `os_distro`, `os_version`, and `architecture`, then only one of them may
  have `os_purpose=generic`. In other words, users who are search visible public images for a generic OS
  of a certain distro, version, and architecture will not get more than one result.
```

The link to the OpenStack specs and the recommended `os_purpose` was added to version 1.1 of

> this standard; a new version 2 of the standard that requires `os_purpose` will be created later.

Author: Agreed. See 8cabaa5

>   this standard; a new version 2 of the standard that requires `os_purpose` will be created later.

Reviewer: The context is that this whole part is indented below the bullet point for precisely the field in question, no?

  | `k8snode`          | Node image built for k8s with CRI and kubelet             |
  | `gpu`              | Image with GPU drivers e.g. for HPC or AI                 |
  | `network`          | Network appliance (firewall, router, loadbalancer, ...)   |
  | `custom`           | None of the above                                         |

  Note that no other values are currently allowed and `custom` should be used in case
  of doubt. Talk to the SCS standardization bodies if you'd like to see this list extended which is
  likely the case if you fall back to `custom`.

  The usage of standardized `os_distro`, `os_version`, `architecture`, and `os_purpose` help cloud users to create
  automation that works across clouds without requiring image names to be standardized.

  _Uniqueness requirement_: whenever there are two images that have `os_hidden=False`, `visibility=public`,
  and that coincide in all three fields `os_distro`, `os_version`, and `architecture`, then only one of them may
  have `os_purpose=generic`. In other words, users who search visible public images for a generic OS
  of a certain distro, version, and architecture will not get more than one result.

>   Note: Expect this field to become mandatory in v2 of this standard sooner rather than later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

  Note: Expect this field to become mandatory in v2 of this standard sooner rather than later.
```

The script `image-md-check.py` retrieves the
image list from a configured cloud and checks each image for the
completeness and consistency of mandatory properties. See the

> [Corresponding Implemetation and Testing Notes](https://docs.scs.community/standards/scs-0102-w1-image-metadata-implementation-testing)

Reviewer: I'm actually wondering whether the whole section (Conformance Tests) should be removed...

Reviewer: (or at least its entire contents replaced by a link to the notes)
